Hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the 2015 13
inch Alienware so Alienware has a huge
set of notebooks they have a 13 inch a
15 inch a 17 inch and they're all gamer
oriented but the 13 inch one is the
cheapest of the bunch it's also the
smallest of the bunch but most
importantly it's the only one that Dell
would send me a review unit for so
that's what we have here so new for the
spring of 2015 the entire lineup has
been refreshed to have the new GTX 970
by Nvidia that are rocking the new
Maxwell architecture so yeah I've had
this for a little while
played a lot of games here's my review
let's start with a super quick unboxing
here it's a pretty large box for a
13-inch notebook but it has a lot of
padding in there so that's nice when you
lift the lid the notebook is sitting
there and underneath is some pamphlets
and some QuickStart guides the top of
the notebook is plastic and has a little
Alienware jewel which lights up I'll get
into that later if I had to draw a
comparison the materials feel very dell
inspiron fingerprints don't show at all
on the surface it's like a thick grey
plastic that has a bit of a metallic
sheen to it but it doesn't feel like a
very premium material on the bottom of
the notebook there are four rubber feet
they're actually made out of a very hard
rubber so it's not very grippy but their
main purpose is to raise the notebook
off the table so that the intake vents
here can suck aaron and if you remove
these two screws here you can pop off
the lid and upgrade your RAM as well as
your hard drive so the model here has a
1 terabyte hard drive you really want to
pop this thing out and replace it with
an SSD now something I noticed before I
replaced it this hard drive was making
clicking noises every once in a while
but I didn't have it in there for very
long before I switch to 2 + MX 100 so
this model here has a core i7 5500 U
which is a dual core three gigahertz
chip 16 gigs of ram a 1080p IPS panel a
gtx 960 with 2 gigs of ram and the stock
drive is a 1 terabyte 5400 RPM piece of
crap that you probably want to replace
right away and this is priced at $1,500
from dell i noticed there was quite a
bit of flex on the screen but even
though it flexes so much i still feel
like it's relatively well made there
isn't any play on the hinge or anything
it's just that the materials they
chosen are flexible now the chassis and
the keyboard do not flex very much but I
think it's more due to the sheer
thickness of this machine rather than
build quality this is a surprisingly
thick notebook okay so on the right side
of the notebook you have your right
speaker two USB ports and an Ethernet
jack
and on the left side of the notebook you
have your AC adapter hole a lock slot
another USB three separate microphone
and headphone jacks and lastly your left
speaker these speakers are pretty big
and that case is also really thick this
machine comes on almost twenty eight
millimeters which is over an inch that's
a really thick notebook for 2015
there is no SD slot so I understand this
is a gamer notebook but just keep it in
mind if you're interested in this thing
now on the back of the notebook you have
your exhaust you have a port for the
Alienware graphics amplifier mini
DisplayPort HDMI port and another
exhaust and in case you want to see it
up close this is the corner of the
notebook where they've kind of angled it
off it's a design feature that's unique
to Alienware and I think it looks kind
of cool on the inside the material is
actually a soft touch rubber it shows
fingerprints like crazy but it's
actually really nice to touch now I
can't tell how the long-term durability
of this material will be just because
your palm will be rubbing on it all the
time when this thing is new it feels
really nice instead of chiclet keys this
thing looks like one of those old-school
notebook keyboards it feels good types
well and the directional keys are in a
great position I think most gamers will
really like this
now the trackpad is a completely
different story the buttons feel fine
they click reasonably well but tracking
is particularly bad it skips around
sometimes it doesn't pick up movements
and honestly I'm getting so tired of
seeing these really cruddy track pads
with otherwise great hardware I really
wish companies would spend more time
when trackpads so alienware computers
can light up they have some nice LED
systems in them that you can configure
extensively with software so you can
control different zones of the keyboard
and adjust the Alienware logo as well as
the alien face logo software is really
intuitive and the colored lighting is
much brighter than other notebooks I've
seen like the HP omen you can also
adjust the LEDs of the front cover as
far as I could tell the alien face and
the two diagonal lines sadly have to be
the same color I know I wanted to change
it as well
the webcam supposedly does 1080p stills
but for video use it feels like 720p the
screen I'm reviewing is a 1080p
non-touchscreen
they do make a quad HD touchscreen but
it's about $200 more it's a matte screen
so the reflections aren't super bad and
the viewing angles are pretty good Dell
advertises it at 350 nits and it does
look pretty bright now visually color
accuracy seemed pretty good but I ran a
spider on it and it's coming in at 75%
for Adobe RGB which is kind of par for
the course with these kind of notebooks
it's not ideal for a colorist but just
for regular use in gaming it's no
problem the AC adapter is 830 watts it's
big it's heavy and it's just the way it
is with these gaming notebooks and this
guy has that classic Dell rubber strap
to tie everything up when you travel and
the AC adapter tip has this nice blue
ring light but sadly it doesn't change
colors or anything when you plug it in
it's just a hallways on blue ok speakers
this thing has one of the loudest
speakers I've ever heard on a notebook
they can easily break 80 decibels
they're big because the case is so thick
but they don't sound particularly good
alright let's talk about fan noise when
this thing is idle it's coming in about
20 decibels under medium load it kicks
into about 25 26 decibels it's
definitely audible but it's still
relatively quiet now when you're running
benchmarks on this things going
full-tilt it's still not even that loud
it only comes in around 30 decibels I
mean it's very obvious that the fan is
running but it's a lot quieter than most
notebooks I've used at full load and
just for kicks here's some thermal
imaging the heat is spread across the
whole keyword it's not super hot or
anything it's just a very evenly spread
out heat now this thing is a gaming
notebook so let's talk about some games
even though this is a Broadwell i7 it
only has two cords so my expectations
for this thing were not super-high dota
2 league and here's of the storm all run
above 60 frames per second at high
settings so I was very surprised if you
put them to very high or ultra settings
you start to drop down depending on the
game you'll get about 40 maybe 50 frames
per second now the previous generation
of this notebook was running a GT 860m
now I did a little research and it turns
out that the previous 860m was also a
Maxwell architecture chip so the 960m in
this notebook is just a slightly faster
clocked version of the same chip that
was in the previous generation so if you
have the previous Alienware with an 860m
it's not worth the money to upgrade it
and for the very first time i actually
played bioshock infinite i'd heard
really good things about this game and
it didn't disappoint I played this thing
until the batteries ran out and it
corrupted my save so I'm pretty sad but
the frame rates are always around 55 60
frames per second which is really
surprising for a 2 core CPU now battery
life on this thing is surprisingly poor
it's a 52 watt hour battery so that's
probably most of the problem but you're
only gonna get about four or five hours
of regular use you're going to be able
to stretch it more obviously if you
nurse it but expect four to five hours
of regular use and if you're just
watching movies you're going to get a
little bit less than three hours but the
thing I find the most disappointing is
battery life during gameplay
so the gtx 960m has this feature called
battery boost and that essentially
enables your battery to have an extended
life while playing games just by
limiting frame rate since
like that so even with that enabled I
was getting just under an hour and a
half of gameplay now I burnt it down
twice on two different games so Batman
Arkham City and Bioshock and both of
these are they're not super intensive
games but they both push this computer
beyond what it's capable of so I'm
getting framerate cut off yet I'm still
getting a little bit less than an hour
and a half of gameplay and that's not
particularly good but the thing is when
you look at this notebook can you see
how thick it is
you kind of think it's going to have a
giant battery in there but it doesn't
okay so some closing thoughts this
notebook did a lot better than I thought
it would in terms of gaming performance
considering that has a two core CPU but
if you want to do other things like
video editing and stuff I don't think
this is a great choice just because of
how few cores that CPU has now the thing
I dislike the most is definitely the
price once you add in an SSD and if you
upgrade the RAM to 16 gigs of ram you're
probably looking at fifteen or sixteen
hundred dollars for this machine and I
feel like that's overpriced by two or
three hundred dollars if this thing was
two or three hundred dollars cheaper I
think this would be a great value but
the way it stands right now before Dell
puts this on sale I don't I couldn't
really recommend this as a purchase but
that's the end of the review I hope you
guys liked it if you liked it give me
some thumbs and if you loved it give me
some subs it's been nice and I'll see
you guys next time